I'm Ed Nersesian, the Director of the Centre.
I just want to tell you about the next round table in May, on May 12th.
The subject is the completeness of physics, and the participants are from the physics side,
Sri Amvada Natalia from Yale, from the philosophy side, Jim Modlin from NYU,
and Carol Rovain from Columbia, from the humanities side, Jonathan Kramnik from Yale,
and from the mathematics side, Joseph Kohn from Princeton.
We are planning another round table, which will be the last before the summer,
on June 16th on the Science and Art subject called Turbulence,
and it's still being planned, so I don't have all the names of the people who will be involved in that.
In flux.
It's in flux. It's in progress.
So Anne-Marie Levine, who is a poet and a member of our executive board, is the person who proposed this idea
and has been instrumental in putting it together, and she will introduce the other participants.
So we have this rather unusual subject.
I've always been interested in, but don't. I don't know anything about it, but I hope we'll all find out.
Just to introduce boredom a little bit. Schopenhauer described boredom as a tame longing without any particular object.
Dostoevsky said it was a beastial and indefinable affliction,
and the poet Joseph Brodsky said it was time's invasion of your world system.
Unsurprisingly, not many can describe boredom, even though most have felt it, and it is one of the central preoccupations of the age.
The most current definition comes from John Eastwood, who is with us.
Raise your hand.
From Toronto.
Drawing from research across many areas of psychological science and neuroscience,
Eastwood and colleagues define boredom as an aversive state of wanting, but being unable to engage in satisfying activity,
which arises from failures in one of the brain's attention networks.
But interestingly, people who investigate boredom find it thus.
Boredom is a blast to a curious and creative scholar, nothing is ever too trivial.
And Peter Tuay finds a perverse kind of plea in his subject that the Daily Telegraph wrote that.
Curiously, the subject seems to invigorate those who study it.
We hope that this roundtable will, in bringing together scholars from literature, psychiatry, neurology, cultural history,
and the law who have thought deeply about the subject, encourage the exploration of the meaning and characteristics of boredom,
and so doing give the audience a chance to enlarge their own ideas.
I'm going to, as quickly as I can, because they have long biographies, introduce the participants.
So would you raise your hand when I introduce you so that we know who you are?
Well, we know John Eastwood is a registered clinical psychologist, holds an academic appointment at York University in Toronto,
Canada, as an associate professor of clinical psychology, where he trains future psychologists and conducts research
on the intersection between cognition and emotion.
He has examined how attention is allocated to effective and socially relevant information,
the influence of mood and motivation on attention, as well as the effective consequences of attention failures.
In particular, he is examining the feeling of boredom associated with the unengaged mind.
Recently, he obtained a research grant to explore the cognitive mechanisms underlying boredom.
He's been awarded the Ontario Psychological Association Harvey Brooker Award for Excellence in Clinical Training,
the Picro-Canada Young of Innovator Award, and the Premier's Research Excellence Award.
Jacqueline Gottlieb is Professor of Neuroscience in the Cavalier Institute for Brain Science
and the Mournemouthies-Cec
Dr. Gottlieb is an internationally renowned expert on the neural mechanisms of attention and decision making and the recipient of numerous awards.
Her work pioneers the study of active information sampling and curiosity, which she investigates using behavioral, computational and neurophysiological methods.
The central goal of her research is to understand cognition as an adaptive process whereby the brain dynamically allocates its resources to best serve the demands of a decision situation.
Gerald Hurwitz, Assistant Professor of Clinical Psychology and on faculty for the past 30 years at Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons.
He has a full-time clinical practice in psychopharmacology and neuropsychiatry in New York City.
Dr. Hurwitz is a founder and chief medical officer at M3 Information and Information Technology Company that focuses on mental health integration into primary care.
He has authored and co-authored many texts in the fields of psychopharmacology and neuropsychiatry.
Dr. Hurwitz received a Master's degree in Philosophy from NYU, an MD from Jefferson Medical College, and a Bachelor of Arts, Physics and Philosophy from Yale.
Your biography is too long.
Mark Paul Sattie has translated more than 50 books from the French, including works by Flabeu, Mariano, D'Oras, T'Bouton and Ramon Rousselle, a Chavalier of the Algredes Aire de L'Etra and the recipient of a 2016 American Academy of Arts and Letters Award for Literature.
He's the author of 11 books, including Revolution of the Mind, The Life of Envoy Wooddell, Louise Bunuels, Les Alvidadas, Bob Dylan Highway 61 Revisited, and Sympathy for the Trader, a Translation Manifesto.
His essays and reviews have appeared endlessly. The New Republic, The Wall Street Journal, Art News, The Nation, Parnazas, Partisan Review, Book Form and elsewhere.
And he directs the publications program at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.
Josefa Rosvylasco is Associate in the Department of Romance Languages and Literature at Harvard University, and Ray, I don't know about pronouncing this, but Ann Rayell, Collegio Comproutense.
Rayell Collegio Comproutense.
Thank you.
And her postdoctoral fellow.
She is conducting multi-disciplinary research on the evolutionary role of boredom from a philosophical anthropological point of view to argue against the widespread understanding of boredom as a pathological personality trait, whereby medicalization of such a common daily annoyance is legitimized.
As part of this approach, she is examining how the comprehension of boredom in terms of a mental disease has gradually formed historically as a result of the act of taking at face value the metaphor of boredom as an illness, especially represented in 19th century Western literature and philosophy.
She's editor and author of the books, Feminism, Past, Present and Future Perspectives, Contemporary Approaches in Philosophical and Humanistic Thought, and Hans Blumenberg, Lidotura, Estetica, Ihnyi Lismo, and of academic papers such as Hans Blumenberg's Philosophical Anthropology of Boredom.
Boredom Humanizing or Dehumanizing Treatment, Boredom, a Comprehensive Study of the State of Affairs.
She's currently working on her next book, History of Boredom, the Way Towards the Path of Ligization of Boredom and Its Alternatives.
In the future, she would like to read a research project on boredom in old age and the improvement of seniors' quality of life in old people's homes by paying attention to the phenomenon of boredom.
To begin, I'd like Mark Politzati to say if you introductory words on our subject.
Hello everyone, thank you indeed for being here. I apologize for those who are looking at my back.
I would rather you hate me than be indifferent to me.
Bob and Howard wrote that the two enemies of human happiness are pain and boredom, and of the two, the more fearsome is clearly boredom.
We rot our brain cells with drugs or Twitter to avoid it. We willingly endanger life and limb to get away from it.
Here today, I would much rather you throw tomatoes at me than yawn.
So if you must walk out, please do it from anger or disgust, not from lack of interest.
What is it about boredom that so frightens and discomforts us?
Tolstoy defined it as the desire for desires, which speaks of a yearning, but one that can never be satisfied because it's a failure of yearning itself.
The fact is boredom is hard to concentrate on. We get restless. We are literally driven to distraction.
The desperation we feel when we're forced to endure it for long periods can be positively claustrophobic.
And yet, somewhat paradoxically, boredom maintains a real hold on our imaginations.
You find it unexpected references to it everywhere.
Robert Museo, in his novel Three Women, writes of a group of prospectors,
what caused them more suffering than food poisoning was melancholy and boredom,
which seems to buttress my conviction that we'd much rather suffer physical pain than suffer tedium.
Others have taken a more prescriptive approach to boredom, offering recipes on how to be a bore,
that presumably really mean to tell us how not to be a bore.
Well, Tara's formulation was, the secret of being a bore is to tell everything.
A sentiment echoed by the American humorist Bert Leston Taylor in a well-known quip,
a bore is a man who, when you ask him how he is, tells you.
Today we would simply say, TMI.
Whoa.
Still others have tried to combat boredom proactively, if not always considerably.
The surrealist leader, Andre Bertone, having cruelly humiliated one of his closest friends in public,
explained afterward to his non-plus companions,
it's only natural when on board to provoke an argument, even a nasty one, to avoid losing stamina.
Now, you have before you five people who are going to spend the next two hours trying to engage your interest
in the negation of interest, which might seem like the very definition of a fool's errand,
but fear not, because for every sage who is dispirited of boredom, others have zeroed in on its redeeming qualities.
The American educator, John Cabot-Zinn, reflecting his work on mindfulness,
points out that when you pay attention to boredom, it gets unbelievably interesting.
Similarly, John Ashbury wrote in his poem, The Short Answer,
why make things more difficult than they already are? Because if it's boring in a different way, that'll be interesting too.
Indeed, the potential of boredom to spur creativity is well known to any artist.
The life of the creative man, said Susan Sontag, is led, directed, and controlled by boredom.
Avoiding boredom is one of our most important purposes.
And Robert M. Persig, author of Sen in the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance, put it even more bluntly
when he said that boredom always precedes a period of great creativity.
Are they protesting too much? Putting a happy mask over their agonized faces?
Perhaps. But many are those who have written not only out of boredom, in both senses of out of,
but have even made boredom their pet subject.
Alberto Moravia's most celebrated novel is titled, Boredom.
Though it's actually about a young man's, but a bored young man's, dangerous infatuation.
The decadent writer, Joris Carl Wiesmanz, who we might call literistures, Chairman of the Board,
made it career, you know I was going to do that, sir.
Made a career of displaying in book after book his uninteresting society and all its works.
If you search under boredom in the book listings on Amazon, it will return more than a hundred pages of results.
Suggesting that the literature of boredom is practically an industry unto itself.
The mention of literature quickly steered us towards boredom's highfalutin French cousin, Onui,
as well as to his German relative, Velschmätz.
Even though the terms are nearly synonymous, each carries a particular resonance,
and each stands apart from plain vanilla boredom, in its connotations of romantic world-weariness,
of being not only bored, but extravagantly, even exotically bored.
From Kierkegaard to Sartre, Onui has got something that mere boredom hasn't got.
Caché.
So much so, in fact, that a company making protective sports gear shows it as their brand name.
Here's the pitch on their website.
Urban sports are extremely fun.
Don't ruin the experience with the wrong gear.
Choose Onui!
No, while Onui and Velschmätz give off a paradoxical whiff of excitement and intensity,
plain old boredom is just well-wearing.
It's Onui's stripped of its glamour.
It's what we all know when we're at home.
It's the tedium of the familiar.
Still, I would posit that that very familiarity of the same old, same old, can also be a comfort.
And I'll end my remarks with one last quote.
This was said not by a famous pundit, but by the woman in a couple I know, who for years
have been maintaining a bicoster relationship.
Once when the three of us were dining together, they were lamenting the difficulties of never
quite seeing each other for long enough.
And after thinking it over, she came out with one of the most romantic sentences I've ever heard.
It's not that I want you here all the time, she told her partner,
I just want the luxury of being bored with you.
Thank you.
So feel free to jump in or if you have something you'd like to say or would you like us to talk about?
I don't mind jumping in.
First of all, I'm sitting over here just in case the tomatoes start flying.
I thought I'd be as far away from Marcus I could be.
I know I'm really struck as a psychiatrist with sort of the very mundane nature, everyday nature
of boredom and how it's something just in front of us and it's in front of everybody.
A little bit like sleep every night that's still mysterious and I think that's really a wonderful
feature of it.
It was an as to the sort of interest of boredom.
I make this observation for what it's worth.
A recent review of two books on Jewish humor by Kathleen Shine in the York Review of Books
quotes the poet Billy Collins to say, humor's the dog that leaves the room when you call its name.
It's sort of well known and it's an old saw that if you have a clinical or critical discussion of humor,
it's not funny.
Humor and Mirth are sort of positive effects or feelings, emotional states.
And the more you talk about them analytically the less humor becomes.
Boredom, maybe Mirth's evil twin sibling has a negative valence but it seems the more we speak of it,
the less boring it is.
I thought that was an interesting way to start and also I won't go on at this point now but I
wonder about Mirth as being, you know, more literally a kind of the other side of boredom.
On that point, I mean one of the things that I would like to say is that, you know, I think if you give,
as you said, you know, if you give boredom at least sort of a second thought, it's sort of beguiling really in enticing.
And on the one hand I think that's both a blessing and a curse for scholars of boredom because it is so open to
understanding, definition, interpretation, study in so many different ways, it's almost like, you know,
this war shock that can capture all of our thoughts and it indeed does seem to provide an organizing framework
for a lot of preoccupation and concern that people have today.
So on the one hand that's just plain fun as a scholar, right?
Because you can just roll around in this unconstrained, limitless landscape.
But if we want to, you know, really collaborate with one another, if we want to be able to make some progress,
dare I say, if that's an okay thing to say, in our understanding of boredom, that I think we need to find sort of some
lingua franca that we can all work from.
And we need to find some way to work together to develop some precision around terms and around the uses of our words.
Because the term boredom is so elastic that as a scientist it's really difficult to wrestle with it, right?
When one person uses the term, it might mean something very different than another.
So while I really think multi-disciplinary approaches, multi-method approaches are absolutely the way to go,
I think it would be wise for us to find ways to corral and constrain our thinking
and to find ways that we can communicate across disciplines and work with each other.
Yeah. I totally agree because today concerning boredom, we have to admit that we have more questions than responses, than solutions.
But we all recognize that we have to do that to speak of boredom.
At least we have to admit that boredom, to talk of boredom, is not boring because we are all smiling all the time.
So my first reaction to your presentation, your fascinating presentation, you told in one time that boredom conduct to disaster
at the very beginning. So I think boredom conduct to disasters, because we are worried about boredom,
especially because of the consequences of being bored.
In particular of the consequences of not to be able to get rid of boredom.
So I think boredom leads to disaster in two different situations when individuals are unable to give a response,
or reply to boredom. And also, this is the topic used by
teenagers and psychologists are working on when individuals have problems with regard to attention and so on.
And also on the other situation, when the context is so close that doesn't offer the responses you are expecting.
In this case, when the individual is not able because of their own problems, mental problems and so on, or because of the context,
the situation is when boredom leads to the disaster. I mean to behaviors that anybody could say are pathological, are deviant behaviors.
I completely agree. And I'm wondering to your point, maybe one of the things to try to distinguish between is boredom and the feeling of discomfort that we feel that we call boredom,
which are maybe not quite the exact same thing. Because I feel very lucky in the sense that if I'm on my own, I actually never feel bored.
I mean I can feel tired, I can feel that I don't have any particular activity, I can feel lack of energy, but I don't feel bored in that sense of being almost kind of desperately anxious to get out of whatever that state is.
Where I do get bored sometimes is when I'm in a place where I can't leave.
So I mean boredom is, hell is other people and so is boredom.
And the classic example for me is in my day job, if I'm stuck in a meeting and I just have to be there, and sometimes they can be great, but sometimes they can get really painful.
And it does cause that sense of claustrophobia that I referenced, where my astral self is sort of getting up from the table and walking out of the room and going,
it's running down the hall, but my physical self, because I'm sort of stuck because of the expectations of the job, is still sitting there just waiting for this thing to end, because whatever they're talking about is just a no interest whatsoever.
And there's a memoir I remember reading once by the former director of the Louvre who was talking about his one of his predecessors would go to meetings of which they had zillions and the French are even worse than we are in the museum world.
And they would go to meetings at a certain point, he would just stand up and say, okay, I'm going to the movies now, and all the other curators would be sitting around the table completely non plus, because this man actually dared to do what they probably wanted to do themselves, but he actually stood up and did it and walked away and it eventually cost him his job, but it kind of didn't matter because he just didn't want to be bored anymore.
The first kind of boredom, hide the gut, talk about boredom or a situation in which you are not forced to be there, but you should, you're constrained.
You should, and you decide to go there voluntarily, nobody is forcing you, but you know in advance you are going to be bored. I'm not sorry if this is the first of the second kind of boredom, hey, they get talk about.
I would actually take slight issue with that because the fact is that there are pressures and constraints on it, you are kind of forced, I mean you're not forced physically at gunpoint, it's not like being in jail, but the fact is that the dictates of my job and the position I have at the museum
and the expectations are such that I'm expected to be in that room, I'm expected to pretend that I'm paying attention, I'm expected to pretend that I actually care what these people are talking about, and I mean, that's obviously most of the time I do, but once in a while,
it's where I am in my salary, and this is part of the job, so there are pressures to do it, I can't just walk out, much as I would love to.
I have a question about the other kind of boredom that happens when you're alone by yourself, and some people who don't get bored in that situation, and I propose advice and I think we're very lucky, but then other people who do get bored.
That situation, what do you think is the difference, I know you've studied this a lot, and maybe related to this, what is the role of boredom in mental illness and psychopathology?
Yeah, there's a big topic. What's the difference between people who get bored when they're by themselves and people who are right?
There's lots of different factors, cultural, social, environmental, psychological factors that can cause boredom, there's a wide variety of things, but I do think we need a clear definition of what the state of boredom is, and so I define the state of boredom as the uncomfortable feeling of being mentally
unengaged, and while not perfect, I think it does a pretty good job of succinctly capturing the definition, and I think the underlying cognitive mechanism is this state of underutilized cognitive resources, right?
We have mental capacity that's sort of pent up and not being utilized or not being used, and I think that's an inherently uncomfortable feeling, and I think we are just designed, evolutionarily, to experience that state is aversive, and I think that's a good thing, right?
It's a good thing. I mean, we wouldn't be here today having this conversation if we were content to be mentally unengaged, right? We wouldn't be here in this culture, the society, not unless this conversation itself.
So I say boredom is the uncomfortable feeling of being mentally unengaged, and I think you can compare it to physical pain.
I think that the discomfort of boredom is analogous to the discomfort of physical pain. They both keep us safe, or they both keep us well.
So it's a good thing that we have the capacity for boredom.
That doesn't mean that we should cultivate boredom, right? So just because pain is a good thing, we don't go around cultivating it, right? We don't say, yes, we should cultivate it.
Nor do I think we should become preoccupied with trying to avoid pain at any cost. That would not be advantageous, nor would it be advantageous to try to avoid boredom at any cost, right?
Similarly, like pain, boredom can become chronic and problematic, right?
Similarly, like pain, I think boredom is the signal, and how we respond to it is what's really critical, right?
Pain is just a message. It's just a signal that tells us we're in a non-optimal state, we're cognitively unengaged, and it gives us that impetus to do something about it.
Now what we do, you know, one G-jump, go and get drunk, read a novel, whatever, we can all respond in very different ways, and that's where boredom can become problematic, right? It's about our response to it.
I'm not a fan of the idea of pathologizing boredom. I don't think we should consider it an illness. I don't think we should consider it a problem.
In its chronic form, it does co-occur with what I would call mental disorders, but I don't think of boredom itself as a pathological state,
but one that we need to handle carefully in lots of different contexts.
I'd like to expand on that a little bit, and also maybe make it a little bit more intuitive for people who are listening about your, that's an excellent analogy to pain.
When you say that people, we need pain, it does serve a function. I think most of us think of things like you stubs your toe, or it's considerable pain, but you know, there are all these folks out there who don't have pain fibers and don't have any sense of pain.
You know, their number one problem is, see, I'm here, I'm a little constrained, I can't keep changing my posture, but if we stay in the same posture exactly for any period of time, pain is what makes us want to move.
So our joints don't get stiff, etc. And you know, people in hospital who are forced to be in the same position can start to develop pain, and it becomes worse and worse.
So it can really be a very tiny negative feeling, pain can be.
And where we don't even recognize it's occurring, and we shift our posture because it's starting to build, but it's there, that is a little tiny bit of pain.
And so I think using that as an analogy to what important is really useful because boredom can happen in these sort of micro doses and have an effect in spurring us to do whatever hopefully we'll do next.
I'll just say one other thing just to be a little bit argumentative with your wish to define boredom.
It's just simply that there's an idea that goes back to the beginnings of modernism of the enlightenment that if only we could have a language, a scientific language that was precise, then all of our problems would be solved, right?
Whereas I think that the pro-dian nature of boredom is actually a very interesting issue because it has many sides and aspects to it, and it fits in so many places.
And I'm certainly in favor, and I like your definition of it as well, but I think we also can bear in mind that it is a sort of slightly ambiguous term, and it does serve in different contexts, slightly differently, or it has a role in different contexts, slightly differently.
And I think that's actually interesting. We don't want to cut off an idea about boredom by reducing it too much.
Fair enough. I agree with that. I remember actually once attending a conference where this poet was talking about T.S. Eliot's, and he was talking about how any definition of H2O needed to include a little duckweed, right?
So I'm quite comfortable with that idea, but I think right now, if you can talk about a field of boredom study, the problem is we've got too much duckweed and not enough precision, but I certainly think we need to stay open.
And I do think that there are useful, precise ideas that cut across contexts, and finding those common patterns is, I think, very exciting and very useful.
I wanted to ask about the boredom definition and so on, because what Mark was describing, I also have been lucky enough to be in that position sometimes, and I never described that as boredom to myself.
I described it that I was restless, irritated, impatient, couldn't tolerate all the nonsense being talked about, but I felt more annoyance, whereas when I am bored, it's more that I kind of pass, I'm passively not knowing what to do or how to engage.
So there's a difference there, and one question then is, you who think about you people who think about boredom and are knowledgeable about it, how do you define it, what is it exactly?
Actually, if I can just jump in with one thing, because there's anemologically, and this might or might not have a bearing, but the French direct translation of boredom is, of course, ennui.
Ennui comes from Old French, which means annoyance, and that comes from Latin, which means hated.
So there is the annoyance, hatred, boredom, vector, it's very tight.
I had a fellow in my lab once who was from France, and he would always say, this is boring, this is boring, and he was still in the hallway, and this is annoying, this is irritated.
So the shows were also at the cultural quality of boredom, and whether or not one chooses to use that term, because I think when you heard that some people would label what your experience is boredom, I don't think you said, well I didn't have boredom, that was something else.
You said, I didn't think to call that boredom in a way, and I have a different thing I refer to when I think of boredom, but I think there may yet be something in common between those two states, which is, I don't know yet what I want to do with myself, and gee, I wish I did, which is the wishing to have a wish that Mark referred to.
And then there's the underutilization of my cognitive capacity, where I could do more, or I'd like to act, and somehow I'm constrained to not act, and that can create a sense of boredom.
The words that Ed used are all active words, I'm annoyed, I'm irritated, they're all active words where boredom, as you pointed out, is a passive. Well I think it's a passive state, maybe not.
So what else could be in boredom that's not passive? Why would it make a difference? Well, as opposed to annoyed, irritated, all those things, they're active words.
I think that's it, I think that whatever the dichotomy captures it, because the person's both idle in some sense are not acting as much as they might, and yet they have an impulse to do so.
So there's the active impulse, and then there's the feeling, I don't know what.
Because in French, on we has a passive quality to it, whereas if you say someone we, that annoys me. So when you say someone we means that annoys me.
But when you say I have on we, I'm just passively feeling something uncomfortable.
So this goes back to a concept that comes up in many many contexts, and that is the optimal level of stimulation. And it comes up, I mean, I don't really know, it's a very mysterious concept in neuroscience when it's presumably maps on some network state.
If your brain is a state, a big dynamical systems of neurons interacting, and there's presumably some optimal rate of interaction that is just good, and it feels good for whatever reason.
And so this is how I imagine boredom, even though I couldn't tell you what that state was, what the principles are, but imagine boredom as being in some other state that is understimulated relative to that optimal one.
And of course you can imagine being overstimulated, and that feels bad in a different way.
But so it's not really determined by any single external circumstance.
If some people of the same boring meeting maybe experienced as irritating by somebody.
And fascinating.
I'm boring and fascinating, maybe by others.
Or boring people. Or maybe even by yourself in a different day.
No.
It's funny to read some of the methods sections of some of the papers on boredom where they're trying to, you know, you've been among them.
What can we use as a stimulus for boredom, which is almost again an oxymorp.
It's funny to read like, oh, we got this movie that's so boring, we'll show that.
Yeah. Yeah. And so, but it's never a property only of the external environment is what that external environment does to you.
What kind of memories it evokes, what kind of mental life it stimulates, right?
So if all of a sudden that boring meeting something came that triggered your memory of something, then at least you could distract yourself with some memory.
And you wouldn't be bored anymore, right?
It's bored, huh? So it's not, right? It's not a function just of familiarity or just of novelty.
There's some happy medium.
If things are too simple or too complicated, they can both be boring.
So there's some happy medium there, right?
Whatever that is.
And boring, boredom, I think, is the state where you might be understimulated and don't like it and want to get out of it, as I think you very well say.
And they're still being overstimulated.
There you go.
Well, they're participants of a sort, right?
We're doing a practical demonstration.
So boring, calm, calm, from both, when they are overstimulated and understimulated.
That's when the flow is broken.
Right.
I guess what I would say is that, you know, where we choose to put the definitional boundaries is up for grabs, right?
I mean, there's no a priori right answer.
You know, we have to decide what's useful.
And, you know, well, I think boredom has a long sort of history.
I'm sure that culture and situation and time have shifted where that boundary has been put slightly.
You know, in my mind, I would think about it as an emotional state.
And I think the two neighboring states that we need to distinguish it from our frustration on the one hand and apathy on the other.
And I think boredom fits somewhere in between those two.
And I think it's important not to conflate boredom with apathy, which often people do.
And I think that boredom involves that desire for desires.
We already heard the Tolstoy quote, right?
And that idea goes back to Schopenhauer's formulation of boredom, that there's this restless longing and desire,
but an inability to articulate what is long for, right?
So it's not at all a passive state.
It's a very, there's a sense of urgency and desire for action.
The psychoanalytic writers talked about the desire being too threatening, and so it needed to be repressed.
But that desire for action remained without any target for discharging that energy, right?
So there's that it's not apathetic.
And on the other hand, frustration, in frustration, you have a goal out on the horizon,
and then something is thwarting your progress towards it, something is standing between you and a desired state.
And that's frustration.
But in boredom, you don't have that future desired state articulated, right?
So you can't be frustrated.
You know, I heard another psychoanalytic writer that talked about a bored person is like putting on a suit.
You know, it doesn't quite fit, right?
No, is it?
Or trying to remember a name, right?
Like, what is that guy's name?
Was it Joe?
Was it George?
No, no, no.
What was it?
You've got this sense, this wraith.
There's something there that you want, but you can't name it, right?
And in terms of the over-under stimulation, I would, again, go back to the idea that situations that are too challenging, right?
If we attend a lecture on some topic that we know nothing about, it's like we can't get a foothold in, right?
We can't get a foothold in, and so we're not cognitively able to engage with what's happening.
If the lecture is on something we know too well, and it's sort of very, you know, uninteresting to us, below our capacity, then it doesn't engage us either.
And so I think in both, you know, those over-under stimulating or over challenging situations, they have that final common pathway of being cognitively unengaged.
And when I say that that's the underlying sub-personal cognitive mechanism, I don't wish to say that that's all there is to it.
There's a phenomenological, there's a subjective part on top of that underlying mechanism.
It's very important, and that's where all the affective kinds of components come in.
Champion, a little bit.
We are all the time talking about one kind of boredom.
As you know, we should talk of boredom perhaps, because we are talking of this situational, contextual boredom,
but what about society which is bored, completely bored?
This, you know, this differentiation between the situational boredom or, yeah, the situation in which you are bored, but if you can do something, boredom perhaps you may get rid of boredom.
But then you have the profound boredom, the deep boredom that later John Philosophy talk about.
This differentiation was established by Paul Balévy, the French support Paul Balévy in the last century.
And then also, if I'm not, yeah, I think it was crack hour, crack hour, then also repeated this definition of boredom in a certain situation.
And the boredom that a society suffer, a society, this kind of boredom you suffer when you are, as you take it with your cultural, social,
economic structures.
Yeah, so perhaps apart from trying to, attempting to define a definition for boredom, we have to start talking of boredom, different boredom.
I mean, I agree not to make it too focused in one direction, but when you talk about society's societal boredom, is that really boredom in the sense, you know, in the sense, even in the
larger sense, even in the larger sense, we're understanding it, is that more metaphorical.
Because, you know, societal boredom sounds to me like it shades more toward what you were talking about in frustration, that when we talk of a society being bored, it really is that the people in that society are feeling that there's something that's not working, whether it's an economic structure, whether it's a political situation, whether it's their ability to affect it.
Yeah, but that's not really bored. That's really frustration. I mean, we're not bored with, you know, the current administration. We're just frustrated with it.
Well, it might be the case of some part of our inculturation in a particular society may not give us the goals, or may not cultivate the goals in people.
I don't know how to exactly say this, but if those goals are not cultivated by people, you know, it's sort of like some young people are coming up through school, they'll say, I don't know what I want to do with myself and say, well, go see your
career counselor, which is perfectly reasonable. But the idea is maybe that person will find something that's not going to be a problem.
And so, I think it's reasonable that the idea is maybe that person will find some interest the person wasn't aware of where they had or give them some focus and direction.
So frustration implies there are things barring people from expressing themselves. And I think that's a more sort of a description, a philosophical and sociological description of, let's say, anger among the underclasser in feminism and such.
People would say, well, yes, of course, women are, of course, African Americans are angry because they're being mistreated. So why are you treating it like a psychological problem?
It's a societal problem. In this case, I think with boredom, you could say, actually, also, people don't know what to do with themselves.
And they may also be frustrated. It's not just one or the other.
I do think when we judge something to be boring, we're doing social work. We're dismissing, we're denigrating. So to describe something as boring is kind of a social act, I think.
And so I would definitely agree in that regard. And you can think about it, like a child in a classroom who, let's say they're struggling with math.
Well, this is boring. What's happening right there? Well, maybe this child lacks the capacity to be successful in this context, but it's a way to save face.
It's sort of an aloof kind of stepping back. And we use boredom to judge people as well. I had one graduate student who was doing a project cross-culturally looking at boredom in rural communities in Guatemala.
And it's interesting that when people say, well, I'm never bored. I'm never bored because I got too much work to do. It's just those rich guys over there that get bored, right?
It's a way of rejecting the other. So I do think social work is happening around boredom in a way that's interesting and a little different than other kinds of emotions, perhaps.
And so I think your point is well taken in that regard. I also think that there are many different potential factors that can cause boredom when you've touched on that as well.
But I think if you're thinking about it as an emotional state, I would think of it as singular with lots of different causes and then lots of different responses I might make to it.
So there's certainly a variety that needs to be explored and understood.
I remember many, many years ago, we were talking one of the early meetings like that, and Carl Prabram was there.
And Carl Prabram said, many of these words we use, and we were talking about creativity, imagination, and so on.
He said, these are just words we use, that it's because we don't really know what they are about and we give them a name.
Do you think boredom falls into that category? That it's not like, for example, when we say fear as an emotion, it seems to be a lot more specific.
And now you can talk about fear circuits and so on. But boredom seems to be, as I listen, it seems like different people feel it or describe it,
or like your student with the mat who says I'm bored. Does he actually have an emotion that is specific and can be called boredom?
This is kind of where I started, right? I mean, my thought would be that boredom can be like fear if we can work together and come up with a definition.
But I think the person in the street will and should continue to use the term very broadly and very loosely, just the way people use the term fear in a way that neuroscientists would say,
well, that's not actually not quite fear, right? I mean, they would like to think just between fear and anxiety and all kinds of nuances that others wouldn't make.
So I think we should start by listening to the person in the street to develop kind of grounded definitions of our concepts and make sure they're culturally relevant and we should look at theories.
But then I think we need to do a little pruning and kind of come up with that definition so that we can work with it like we can work with fear.
Yeah, I agree. So I think it's so coming from neuroscience where we're not really studying boredom yet, but we're not studying a lot of interesting higher-level concepts like curiosity.
Right.
But it's not that they cannot be studied. It's just we didn't get to them yet.
So this is why I mean fear is even impossible to study at the biological level not long ago and all these decision-making.
Everything we care about that's interesting. It's very hard to define.
That's right.
But in a sense, that's why we're not going to give up trying to, you know, operation.
So it's just some disciplines are in terms of studying boredom causes so difficult to define that.
Yeah.
Perhaps I'm for apologies. I think what we are going to say about boredom cause some affection, some emotion, a state of mind is.
Well, I mean, so it's the same as the sort of the dark side of mental life, right?
When we study feeding behavior in neuroscience, we don't say we study hunger, right?
Hunger is a motivation for feeding. So the same thing boredom is the motivation for engaging in mental life.
But so I was going to ask you, speaking of these disconnect, I mean, in a sense, you're a lot farther ahead than we are in neuroscience.
And this is what attracted me to read some of your studies, because I started thinking about what motivates us to engage attention,
what motivates us to be curious. And then I looked in my field in neuroscience, and I'm amazed to find that in neuroscience,
we think of mental activity as a cost. So right? It's really nice to be able to put everything that has resource limitation in an economic framework, right?
So attention, mental capacity is limited. So we have to decide how to engage it.
Either I'm attending to one thing, that means I'm not attending to the other.
And we engage our mental life in order to obtain some benefit. Whatever that is, utility, right?
But optimally or rationally, we want to obtain that benefit with the minimum of effort.
So in that framework, mental life is a cost that if we, everything being equal, I'd rather not pay, right?
So if you give me a choice between doing something that's a bit more difficult and a bit more easy, if you don't pay me extra, I'll just go for the easy stuff, right?
That's our theory. That's the state of our theories that people go by. And of course that opens the question, well, then why are we curious?
Why are people reading books for no apparent benefit when you just go to sleep to conserve energy?
Things like that, right? So clearly that little definition that we're working on is very incomplete.
And anyway, so I was wondering what do you think about that?
Well, I think that's a great question. And so you could summarize that maybe as this cognitive miserly model, right?
This idea that we want to reduce our expenditure of resources and we want to...
Now, so sometimes people when they hear me say that the state of being mentally unengaged is inherently aversive, they say, well, wait a second.
How does that jive with this cognitive miserly idea? But I don't see a conflict there because I'm not...
You know, a cognitive miserly model is about the exertion of effort, right? And there are ways to be cognitively engaged that don't necessarily require a lot of cognitive effort.
So you think about reverie, daydream, mind wandering. These are all ways of being engaged mentally that don't involve cognitive effort.
However, you brought up some other examples like curiosity, which I think is an interesting example.
And you might argue, well, curiosity sometimes does require the exertion of effort and therefore it might be contradictory with this miserly model.
And, you know, I don't have a kind of a solution to that paradox when it comes to curiosity, but I feel confident that we can say that being mentally unengaged is inherently aversive without it being in conflict with this miserly model.
And I think the miserly model, as you're pointing out, is too simplistic, right?
That certainly there are times in which affectance motivation, like we're motivated to demonstrate our competence, to be effective in the world, to make changes.
And that sometimes requires effort. And so I think the miserly model is...
Which has its base in this very narrow cognitive science kind of paradigm, is...
Doesn't apply more broadly when we look at human life.
Maybe I don't know if this affects or where there's a cognitive miserly model, but maybe one pathway into it is to broaden the definition of what payback is.
Because you talk about, okay, I want to do something for the least possible effort if you're only going to pay me x, y, z.
And I'm thinking, you know, just in a very practical, basic term, translations I've done that have taken me enormous amounts of time and enormous amounts of effort, and for which I've gotten, you know, one nth the amount that I would usually charge for one of these, because I just wanted to do it.
It was a labor of love, right?
And so the payback there is my satisfaction in taking the time and putting in the effort to do what I consider a good job and being able to then read it and say,
ooh, that's actually pretty good. That's my payback. I mean, the monetary part is fine, but if it were only because of that, I just wouldn't have done it at that rate.
And if you talk about why people engage in altruistic events or why they, you know, why they do things that don't seem to have any particular return, the return is, you know, potentially the return is, in fact, that feeling of having to be able to do it.
And so that's, in fact, that feeling of having engaged in some sort of altruistic effort.
This reminds me a little bit of what we were talking about earlier about the very small valence attached to pain or boredom, and I think the same thing applies to reward.
We have this new model, new-ish model about how dopamine functioning in the brain and the midbrain affects our anticipation of reward.
And bear in mind, actually, that can easily become too simplistic a model where we think, oh, reward equals dopamine, and that's clearly wrong.
But it's because actually, I was careful to say, the anticipation of reward is different from reward, right?
And so what we, each of us, imagines will be the reward if I do X, Y, or Z.
They have a greater bearing on what we end up doing in the world.
And I do mean, again, just like with the issue about a slight bit of pain in one's joints, if I'm sitting somewhere and I'm just idle and I suddenly see a bottle of water, let's say I just want to move it because it's not where I want it to be, or let's say I'm thirsty.
And a very small valence of interest then motivates me to get up and move and to do it.
And I suppose that does involve something to do with the dopamine that's going through my brain.
I'm sort of a background activity in the brain, and it's interesting to note in keeping with our talk about boredom not being a passive state.
And again, I want to be careful not to equate boredom to the default mode network, but the default mode network, which is sort of how our brain seems to be functioning, the network connections between parts of our brain,
and that's also not a very passive thing, and that's part of the thing that's interesting about it, it's actually an active state that needs to be sustained in some fashion.
And so I know that then switching from that idle state to a more, you know, a salient state where things become interesting and I might want to choose to do X, Y, or Z.
That's an important area, right?
And I think we have to carefully imagine where might boredom fit in there in that paradigm.
There's not very much, but I think one of the areas that's really exciting is looking for the neural and the physiological signatures of boredom.
So you've already mentioned the default mode network, which is active when you're sort of at rest or when you're engaged in internal thought and internal reverie,
and the central executive network when you're engaged with kind of tasks in the world, right?
I'm trying to figure out something in front of me.
And certainly when you are bored, the default mode network is more active than when you are engaged in some activity.
But importantly, you know, there was a study done by a colleague of mine, James Danker at the University of Waterloo, where they compared someone in a bored state versus a resting state.
And there is a difference, right?
So the insular cortex is another part of the brain that is thought amongst other things to be involved in helping you toggle back and forth between the default mode network and the central executive network,
and is also responsible for tagging saliency in our environment.
And so I'm going well beyond the data in my interpretation here, and this is only one study, but one way of interpreting this is that the person is having a hard time shifting out of the default mode network.
So there's this kind of, you're stuck where you can't disengage from the one and engage in the other, the other neural network.
So indeed, you know, just to summarize, the default mode network is quite centrally involved in boredom, but it's not equivalent with boredom.
There are some very important distinctions.
In fact, external movements are also very different when you are bored, sometimes you're young.
It's totally different too.
There's a thought actually yawning.
I read something about yawning being involved in this toggling.
Did I make that up?
Or do you know whether?
I don't know.
I think I saw some reference where they mentioned that yawning actually helps someone sort of switch out of the default mode network, which is perfectly in keeping with what you're saying.
So when I think about curiosity, again, with very little data, but the way I imagine this, so if the default mode network is engaged in resting state and it's involved in mind wandering, all kinds of mind wandering.
So people, when they don't do anything, people do stuff.
There are studies that probe the thoughts, and usually you're planning stuff on most of the time, and sometimes it's other things like singing songs or reciting stuff.
So that's associated with the default mode network, but that's a resting state which is not boring.
So if you can, so the way I imagine this working is that if you can engage your default mode network together with your memories and somehow engage the reward system, then you're happy.
You're in a good mental state.
But there must be some other state where you're resting and you can't engage that whole network and then you're not happy.
I agree well put.
What I was trying to get at is you're in between the two.
You can't get into one mode.
You can't activate one neural network fully or the other.
And so I do see mind wandering to be a consequence of boredom in situations where you're constrained and you can't leave.
You might mind wander as a way to engage your cognitive resources and therefore to not be bored.
And when you're able to do that, then you just see default mode network.
But when you're being told you have to pay attention to this and you don't really want to, and you're trying to daydream at the same time, it all gets bungled up.
Then there's an interesting loop where you become interested in what your mind's wandering over.
Sure.
And that becomes salient in of itself.
And what is that exactly?
And how does the brain adapt or respond in those circumstances?
Because I think people who are creative almost certainly are sort of riffing off these sort of mind wandering events and then paying attention to it and developing it.
And it's interesting.
I think maybe this is shifting the topic a little bit, but I'd be very interested to hear what you think about this in terms of curiosity.
Because there's a psychologist that talked to you use this term constructive internal reflection.
And she was referring to that mind wandering state when you are kind of riffing and that creativity is happening.
And I think what happens with boredom is we often go to the external world for salvation, right?
We're for relief.
And I think that short circuits the capacity to develop that constructive internal reflection as a skill or as an ability.
And a resource.
Yeah.
And I think culturally we're in a culture right now where our attention is being yanked around by the collar from all these exogenous demands, right?
Look here, do this.
I mean, standing in Times Square, you know, from the big town of Toronto and Times Square is overwhelming, right?
And your attention is just drawn everywhere.
And what happens is that capacity for constructive internal reflection or for endogenous control of attention can sort of atrophy.
And I think boredom can maybe push us to seek out that external stimulation as a short term solution to our problems.
But in the long term, it may actually end up really making the situation worse.
And so I think that some way you're saying about creativity and about that internal reflection being adaptive kind of pulls it together, right?
That's right.
Well, maybe because part of it is to, you know, if you can focus on one thing that's calling for your attention or if you're bored and you focus on one response to it in a creative way,
that does imply some kind of engagement and depth that you have to then go into.
Whereas if it's the Times Square model, you can't.
You know, you start moving in one direction, but there's this other thing calling you there and you never really go anywhere.
There's no attention really paid.
It's just constantly.
I mean, the question is, do you get bored in Times Square?
Yeah.
Shall I open it to questions?
Just follow each other in one afternoon.
Dr. Priest, we're really happy to know that you got me thinking, but it was something I was irritated about.
Okay.
But then you changed it a little bit and I think that it was argued.
It was the word you used first, looking for the right word, and you would say the word unengaged.
And the grammatical word is disengaged, right? And disengaged for me carries an ethical aspect to it.
If a patient would say to me that they were bored, I would say, is there something that you want to do that would be engaged?
Engage you. Something, you know, save the world, help your family, you know, something like that.
In other words, it's key to taking some kind of action and actions have ethical aspects.
But I'm very glad that you, and not only that everybody started using that term, being engaged, which is a very different than something which is neurological, essentially neurological.
So could you comment on that?
Well, I'm glad you brought that up.
And I think there's a really important idea here that's fairly complicated, right?
And there's a number of elements to your comment, to your question.
Engaged is a description of my relationship with something else, right?
So I'm engaged with this or I'm not engaged with it, and it's action-oriented, like you said, and as you said, it contains ethical implications, you know, what I choose to engage with, or whether I commit myself to something or not.
Unengaged is a description of sort of my cognitive resources, and they are not being utilized.
A way to utilize them would be to become engaged.
But I think it's important for me to define boredom in a context-free way, because if you try to define it in a way that is linked to disengagement, then you need the context to define the state.
But if you define the state as this unengaged state, then it is a definition that sort of transcends the context.
I think said that.
I think I would agree with all of your points about the ethical connotations of this topic and the importance of seeing the solution through engagement.
Thank you.
My name is Ronald Aldas from the Paris Analytica, it's a political society, and I apologize for my English.
So I have one comment and one question for Mr. Polisotti.
I'd like to emphasize the importance of time when we speak of boredom, Brodsky's invasion of time.
And this preoccupation of time goes and about how to avoid boredom goes far beyond the enlightenment.
I don't know if you know about Palazzo Schifanoia in Ferrara.
It's a beautiful story because Duke of Ferrara in Italy, the family Deste, one of the dukes in the 14th century built a new palace.
And he called it Palazzo Schifanoia.
Schifanoia in Italian is Esquivare La Noya, which is to avoid boredom.
And he commissioned two painters, so the Renaissance, to paint frescoes on the walls of a room, which is called Ilcello to the Emesi.
The room of the month, because these two painters, the Francesco de la Cosa and Cosmetura, which are very important painters for the Renaissance,
they painted the month of a year.
So it's about time.
So this preoccupation of boredom led them to a critical creation of representing the time.
That's my first comment. And the time is also important because it's maybe leading us to Melancholia and to Melancholia to engage mentally through things.
But for example, our patients, very often they are not able to engage because they're not able to, they're not no capacity for cateches.
And that's also about boredom.
Time is everything in boredom.
Is everything.
And the relationship just pay attention to the world in German, Lang Bile, on the opposite, could spy.
Lang Bile, the time is long. It does pass.
The subjective impression that the time is not passing.
And sometimes the feeling we are experiencing when we are bored is because we feel bad of being spending or time in doing anything or time passes.
And the question for you is, as a translator of Kustaf Lubehr, could you say some words on Madame Bovari?
Just to find the words that you can say about Madame Bovari.
If we speak about boredom, we can't avoid Madame Bovari.
I suppose the simplest one could say is that she's a good case study and the self-destructive behavior.
The one can indulge in if one is bored.
In the French archives, the term Bovari, I don't know if you use it in America, it's a very particular kind of boredom.
In the sense that there's something, you know, sort of a grass is always greener kind of a sense that there's this ideal out there that can be attained and that in fact doesn't really exist.
You also brought up something that told you up.
You brought up one thing that I actually actually, we might not have time to touch on here, but I'd be curious at some point to know what the scientists and the philosophers think of the relationship between boredom and depression.
Because it seems to me that you alluded to this, that those two also have a connection and that boredom and depression might be maybe two sides of the same coin.
I don't know.
Sure, yeah, I mean in reference to that, I was about, I don't mean it whatsoever to reduce what you said so well to discussions of neurotransmitters and such.
There is a nice correspondence here, which is related to the way time is perceived in people based on their sort of how much dopamine we have, sort of, of coursing, there are veins, and you know, the most famous case of someone having a very long, low amount of dopamine
with Parkinson's disease who are almost like moving in slow motion, right, their time is much slowed and their time senses is changed as well.
And that's very interesting.
Depression, of course, has all sorts of effects in all different neurotransmitters in the brain when one is depressed, but one of the changes, again, is an effect on dopamine levels.
Some people, especially elderly patients, when they become depressed, they can actually appear somewhat Parkinsonian, we say, because their dopamine levels have dropped sufficiently for that to be manifest.
And so there is the same issue, if dopamine is the sort of stimulus, let's say, that makes us move here or there or elsewhere, and when that is at low ebb, we don't have that sort of guide us forward.
And that doesn't mean our desires or wishes are gone, and that's important.
And I think because they're not gone, that may be a recipe for feeling bored, right?
But Andrea had a question.
And so you mentioned the distinction between boredom and apathy.
So it seems to me that you could be depressed, and I don't know if this is true.
So you could be depressed and not, I mean, be so apathetic that you're actually not bored, because you don't want, can't even imagine, don't even want to get out of this state.
Because you don't, right?
And whereas boredom could actually be an improvement of that, the desire to, you know, experience something else.
You hid it perfectly.
That's right.
They very much do overlap, and it's a very common bit of confusion for family members and caregivers to people with Parkinson's, for example, that they think of them that they're depressed.
Just because they are so apathetic.
And so there are pure forms of apathy where there's no boredom involved, they have no wishes.
And then there's sort of, it could shade from one to the other, and you're, again, correct.
If you move towards feeling a restless sort of boredom, that's a movement in the right direction.
Yeah.
It seems that we use the word boredom very, likely, very easily.
That's right.
In all different ways.
Yeah.
There's so much more that could be said about boredom and depression, so I won't get into that, but they are very much linked developmentally across time.
The time is a really important point, which we didn't talk about today, but, you know, it is part of the definition, that phenomenological feeling of the slow passage of time.
And we've already heard about the relationship between dopamine and the perception of time passing.
We also know that cognitively, when you are not engaged, there's a sense of time passing slowly as well.
And so we know that boredom prone people don't judge the passage of time well.
And in our studies, when we try to manipulate and make people bored, we rig the passage of time as one of our variables to try to change that.
And then there's time, but then there's things happening in that time, too, right?
And so you can think about boredom as sort of everything is happening at that moment, and nothing is about to happen, right?
And so you think about, you know, the difference between art versus sort of pornography or propaganda, right?
And in propaganda, pornography is all there.
What you see is what you get.
There's nothing more, whereas art kind of draws you in.
There's that sense of walking through the garden, and as you turn a corner, a new vista presents itself, a new possibility.
And in boredom, that stops, right? That possibility of more stops.
So there's time, but then there's also what is happening within that time that's important to think about it.
And the worry was not depressed. It was for David.
It was.
The conversation has been anything but boring.
Two quick questions and a quick comment.
I'm wondering about mindfulness and meditation and the effect on being bored, being boredom.
The second question is, are curious people less bored and can curiosity be in fact an antidote to boredom?
And the third is just a pedestrian definition of perhaps boredom is just the nanosecond before we reach for our phones.
These things.
Nanobordum.
Oh, being nanobordum.
Microbordum.
I can say a few things about those questions.
On the issue of about mindfulness, there's a little bit of research on mindfulness and boredom.
And as you would expect, people that are high in trait mindfulness or people who regularly practice mindfulness meditation,
when put in a vigilance task or a sustained attention task, which is very, very boring, trust me.
We just have to watch a computer screen for a rare kind of event that may happen and then press a button.
People that are high in trait mindfulness experience less boredom and less discomfort and less agitation during those kinds of potentially boring situations.
So indeed, mindfulness prevents or protects one from boredom and there's some open questions about precisely why.
One idea is that mindfulness actually results in the strengthening of a tensional capacity so that you then can attend more effectively.
But there's also the idea that mindfulness may make you less emotionally reactive to the state of being under aroused.
And we just have one study that we haven't published yet where we're looking at this and so far the data seems to be more consistent with the idea
that mindfulness has its beneficial effects via that emotional reactivity pathway not through an increasing attention capacity.
So they're definitely related and curiosity.
Yeah, did you want to speak to that issue?
Yeah, so I think it all goes back to this.
So yes, I would definitely think that more curious people are less bored and I think it all goes back to this idea of being able
to generate questions.
So the key about curiosity is the way we think it works is that you encounter a situation that triggers a bunch of hypotheses in your mind.
What could be happening here?
It could be XYZ.
And then it's the willingness to engage and answer the question.
That's how it works.
So in a sense it goes back to the same thing as being able to generate mental activity which is then very satisfying.
So answering those questions is very rewarding.
It goes back to those internal rewards that I think fuels human civilization.
I mean without, if we didn't have curiosity we'd still be back in the caves I think.
But anyway, so yes, so it's exactly the antithesis.
And I think of boredom I guess as the failure in some way to trigger that mental activity.
I would add, I'm hoping that your John's last interpretation of how mindfulness might work.
I actually, I don't know if it's true, but I like that.
I agree with it.
That is that if you feel more comfortable managing the state of being idle minded let's say and not get tense and stressed about it
and actually think I can master it.
That might be a way also to master being able to focus your attention when you want to be able to focus it.
Not getting anxious about it.
I think to the other topic we didn't talk on very much that relates to your question, your comment or your question about curiosity
is that I think this is something all educators would really say yes, a big thumbs up.
We want to be able to cultivate curiosity in people.
And how do we go about that?
What are the different mechanisms by which we do it?
I think art and science and literature are our most common ways that we try to do that with people.
And I think there's proof that it works.
Yeah, so emotional reactivity is very important and there are some studies on that.
It actually affects memory.
They're direct studies on memory.
So the way that you remember an item or an event depends on the circumstances.
So in the laboratory we can motivate memory, for example by rewards or by avoiding punishments.
We can put somebody in a task.
And it's been shown that the encoding of information differs in those two contexts.
So if you're motivated by rewards you encode more incidental information.
There's more of richer context that's being stored.
Whereas motivation by punishment, which presumably induces anxiety, narrows the focus.
It's interesting because all of these seem to be too systematic about it.
Sort of a dividing line on the one hand you have boredom and anxiety.
And it goes back to the example of the kid who can't get the math so he gets bored with the study of math
because he's afraid, he's anxious about it.
Versus curiosity and ease, curiosity and comfort.
Which is that when you are more comfortable with the state of not doing anything and having to focus your attention
in a way that many people might find boring you're actually less bored by it.
There's kind of a, again, a sort of reward of self-fulfillment that comes from those sectors.
Thank you.
Yes, thank you all very much for this.
I'm a person who qualifies as essentially very bored.
My name is Nancy Garnier, I'm a musician and performing and teaching.
My memory as a child was of incredible boredom except when I was playing the piano mostly fooling around.
And when I was about 12, I hit on something in a book by a composer.
I knew nothing about anything.
My family was not into classical music at all.
It was within a sonata by Mozart.
It wasn't the piece, it was specific sounds within that piece that just blew my mind.
I thought, oh, there's been a person in the world who hears as I hear.
I then subsequently found that the field of music was not at all interested in that quality of hearing.
That rather, it was assumed that people heard a certain way.
I don't believe that's true.
I still don't believe that that's true.
I believe that this power of shared intensity is epitomized in the action of hearing.
It's become my life's work, in fact.
The thing that has meant most to me in putting together my incredible capacity for boredom
and the intensity of my reaction to specific sounds was measured by A. James Huddspith at Rockefeller University
who found out that there are 16,000 moving hair cells over here in your cochlea
and 16,000 over there and that they impart information to the brain 200 times faster than any other sense perception.
When I tell this to a child, a student who's eight years old, they go, wow, and there's no possible way they can get bored.
None. It's gone.
There's so much happening. It just totally transformed my ability to take in all kinds of information from disabled students to, I don't know, all kinds of people.
Anyway, I've joined the Society for Music Cognition and Music Perception and Cognition to my astonishment.
They have bought into this kind of mangle ironed approach to listening.
So the examples they study are all recorded. They've all been listened to a million times.
They're all, it's like hand green beans. It's such a massive disappointment to me.
I just throw out to you, you're studying boredom, to consider the dynamic of hearing and how it can inform vision.
Usually it's the reverse, that vision is used to kind of quiet the hearing down so it won't be so intense.
Is that a question? I don't know. I hope so.
It's certainly an inspiring story. I'll say this about what you said. I don't know if this is so. I'd ask you more questions to find out.
I think you brought up something very interesting about how having an experience of a shared experience played such an important role in unlocking your feeling of curiosity.
Because you said, oh, someone heard this and intended it the way I hear things.
And that idea of empathy obviously played a role. And I think that's why the best teachers are often the ones who in part of feeling of empathy in their students.
I think it also brings up, you know, this without any scientific basis to say so, that to me instinctively it makes perfect sense that people hear things different ways and that it does bring up what I think we were touching on before about, you know, part of curiosity
or boredom has to do also with personal response. The same reason that someone could be very moved by Mozart and someone else could be very moved by Ozzy Osborn.
And, you know, who's to say that it's, who's to say that there's a, you know, a wrong or a right answer there. It just depends on.
Oh, okay. I'm not going to get a answer.
Yeah, so let me give, I want to give a little perspective because you mentioned studies of the year of the cochlea and so on.
So in neuroscience, again, I think this is, I come back to this topic of how early we are in neuroscience because, I mean, there's a magic to all the senses.
I mean, vision is incredibly rich. All factions is incredibly rich. Hearing as well.
But in neuroscience, we study them separately, just like you said, in the field of music cognition.
So we study the receptors as some just engineering systems input and how things are represented.
And then when we study other things like emotions and decision making, that's a different topic, like the different world, different people.
And clearly, there's an enormous interface there because the way much of our pleasure comes from interacting with the world.
And there's enormous variability there and how people sense and hear things. And the emotion, anyway, all of that is totally unexplored.
I was just going to say one other thing about the other thing I heard in your story there was the importance.
I would call that of sort of doing ecologically valid research, right?
And so you know the joke about, you know, you come to the parking lot and there's the drunk looking for his keys under the lamppost, you know, and you say, what are you doing?
I'm looking for my keys. Where'd you lose them over there? Why are you looking here? Because the light's better, right?
And so, you know, I think a lot of science can be characterized in that manner, right?
So, you know, I hold that, but I still hold my earlier comments about our need for more precision, right?
And so it's a balance. It's a balancing act. But thank you for your story.
I have one more real quick comment about what you said. I don't know the author. What is a recent study of infants that showed that they observed the effort being made by their parents doing some tasks, some tasks that may be frustrating.
And the infants knew, saw the difference between the parents making an effort or not.
I don't know how they measured the outcome, but there was some sort of outcome.
This is in nature. It was not a obscure journal or anything like that.
But it was interesting that that idea of empathy, and that's important to someone else, important to me.
So that must be important. And as a way of engendering curiosity, you can see that be rather potent.
I would want to thank all of you for such an interesting conversation.
I live in this neighborhood in which there are a lot of children of working parents,
a number of whom have wherewithal, and increasingly, children go to school after school have a lot of activities that are assigned.
Gymnastics, art, whatever. It's sort of like little channels.
And in between, I've observed, they will say, I'm bored when one activity is over. I'm bored.
And as if they say to them, it will be around. As if that's their responsibility to find how it should be resolved.
And I wonder, do you mention internal reflection?
What happens to that in that kind of a situation where you're not allowed to be bored,
or it quickly has to be resolved, whereas another time children were left supposedly to their own finding their own answers to these things?
One metaphor that might speak to that from George Simmel, a sociologist, many years ago,
he talked about the relationship between technology and boredom, and how they collude with one another.
We're hearing lots about collusion, so the idea that boredom and technology collude.
And on this particular issue, the idea is that using technology is like falling into a fast-moving river where you can forget how to swim.
The river carries you along, and you don't even need to know how to swim anymore. You just, before you know it, you're downstream.
And so I would use that metaphor to communicate the idea that if your time is structured exogenously,
if your attention is directed exogenously, the capacity to endogenously direct your attention may atrophy.
Now, I can't say this based on any kind of research finding at this point,
but this is certainly something that we're trying to see if we can bring under the light, the lamp post,
of science to see if we can kind of actually quantify that sort of effect.
What loss is there?
What happens then?
I mean, to put it very metaphorically, it's like a skill that atrophes.
When we're born, we have a hard time directing our attention, right?
Our attention is very much stimulus bound. There's a rattle over here.
And then it takes some development for us to be able to disengage from that and to engage in internal reflection.
And so this is a skill that needs to be taught and needs to be developed.
And I think the excessive use of technology may short circuit opportunities to develop that skill.
And it's not only technology. I mean, I completely agree.
And I think, you know, I hear what you're saying about those children, and I see it a lot myself.
You know, we are not in a society that actually fosters that sense of self-reliance.
And the beneficial effects of being bored, i.e., using your own devices to mentally come out of that state
and to actually use it to some kind of positive, you know, that creative capacity that we were talking about earlier on.
You know, standing in the subway. I try to read when I'm in the subway.
But there are announcements all the time that have nothing to do with anything.
There are people talking. You know, there's just, you're constantly stimulated.
When I was in, when I lived in Boston, there was this one moment that, thank goodness, only lasted about a week.
It was an experiment. And I think they must have gotten a lot of complaints where they suddenly started blasting music on the platform
so that, God forbid, you should be bored for two seconds or actually, you know, alone with your thoughts
while waiting for the train to come. And I want my thoughts. I want a little bit of quiet.
I want to actually find out what's going on in there.
That's like going into a doctor's office where they're playing some kind of medical TV or something.